Add documentation for Axion Lighting integration (#34532)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/axion_dmx.markdown

---
title: Axion Lighting
description: Integration for controlling Axion Lighting systems using DMX protocol.
ha_category:
  - Lighting

> ha_release: '2024.08'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: '2025.10'
```
To be checked when core PR is merged.

ha_iot_class: Local Polling
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@Vrncanac'
ha_domain: axion_dmx
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> This integration enables control of the complete [Axion Lighting](https://axionlighting.com/) ecosystem via the Axion PoE & Wi-Fi DMX Controller. Using Home Assistant, you can add White, Tunable White, RGB, RGBW, and RGBWW lighting loads. The module provides accurate brightness scaling, quick responsiveness, and easy integration of any DMX address from 1-512.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Axion Lighting** {% term integration %} allows you to control the complete [Axion Lighting](https://axionlighting.com/) ecosystem via the Axion PoE & Wi-Fi DMX Controller. Using Home Assistant, you can add White, Tunable White, RGB, RGBW, and RGBWW lighting loads. The module provides accurate brightness scaling, quick responsiveness, and easy integration of any DMX address from 1-512.
```

## Prerequisites

> To use this integration, you will need an Axion Lighting system that supports DMX control. Ensure that your DMX controller is properly connected to your Home Assistant instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To use this integration, you will need an Axion Lighting system that supports DMX control.
```
"Ensure..." Is this really a prerequisite? Can I do this before the integration is added to Home Assistant?

> ### Network Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Network requirements
```
We use [sentence-style capitalization](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide), please fix throughout the page.

- The DMX controller must be on the same network as Home Assistant.
- The controller should have a static IP or a DHCP reservation.
- Ensure that firewall settings allow communication on the necessary port 4005.
- IPv4 is required; IPv6 support is currently unsupported.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

> ### Configuration Options

Reviewer: We have a [configuration_basic block](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L77) that you could use here.

## Light Entities

This integration supports the following light entities:

- **White**: Controls the brightness of a single white channel.
- **Tunable White**: Controls the temperature of white light by adjusting the balance between warm and cool white channels.
- **RGB**: Controls Red, Green, and Blue channels with brightness scaling.
- **RGBW**: Controls Red, Green, Blue, and White channels with brightness scaling.
- **RGBWW**: Controls Red, Green, Blue, Warm White, and Cold White channels with brightness scaling.

### Usage

Once configured, your Axion Lighting devices will appear in Home Assistant, and you can control the lights using the UI. The integration supports standard Home Assistant light services, such as turning lights on/off, adjusting brightness, and changing colors (for RGB, RGBW, and RGBWW modes).

#### Example Configuration

```yaml
light:
  - platform: axion_dmx
    ip_address: "192.168.1.50"
    password: "your_password"
    dmx_channel: 1
    light_type: "RGBW"
```

#### Example UI Controls

<p class='img'>
  <img src='/images/screenshots/Axion_lighting_localUI.png' alt='Screenshot of Axion Lighting UI displaying integration options' />
</p>

> ### Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Actions
```
Services have been renamed to actions.

> #### axion_dmx.set_level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Action: Set level
```
We use this format for the titles, and add the YAML style in the text:

> Set the brightness of the light entity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `axion_dmx.set_level` action sets the brightness of the light entity.
```

> | Parameter    | Description |

Reviewer: Please convert the [tables into lists](https://developers.home-assistant.io/docs/documenting/general-style-guide#tables). For example: https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L143

| Parameter    | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `channel`   | The DMX channel number (1-512) to be controlled. |
| `rgb_color` | The color to set, specified as an RGB value. |

**Example YAML Call:**

```yaml
service: axion_dmx.set_color
data:
  channel: 2
  rgb_color: [255, 100, 50]
```

#### axion_dmx.set_rgbw

Set the RGBW color of the light entity using DMX channels - 4 channels will be occupied.

| Parameter    | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `channel`   | The DMX channel number (1-512) to be controlled. |
| `rgbw_color` | The color to set, specified as an RGBW value. |

**Example YAML Call:**

```yaml
service: axion_dmx.set_rgbw
data:
  channel: 3
  rgbw_color: [255, 100, 50, 200]
```

#### axion_dmx.set_rgbww

Set the RGBWW color of the light entity using DMX channels - 5 channels will be occupied.

| Parameter    | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| `channel`   | The DMX channel number (1-512) to be controlled. |
| `rgbww_color` | The color to set, specified as an RGBWW value. |

**Example YAML Call:**

```yaml
service: axion_dmx.set_rgbww
data:
  channel: 4
  rgbww_color: [255, 100, 50, 200, 180]
```

> ### Error Handling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Troubleshooting
```

> - Ensure the `channel` value is within the range of 1-512.

Reviewer: Is this a troubleshooting step, or a general instruction? 
If it is meant as troubleshooting, then please add the symptom. What happens if values outside the range are used.
An example of the symptom/resolution troubleshooting structure can be found on [the examples page](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L167).

- Verify the `rgb_color`, `rgbw_color`, and `rgbww_color` values are in the correct format (list of integers between 0-255).
- If authentication fails, check that the `password` is correct and meets security recommendations.

> ## Removal Instructions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There a [predefined text block](https://github.com/home-assistant/home-assistant.io/blob/current/source/_integrations/_integration_docs_template.markdown?plain=1#L200) you can use here. If needed, add additional steps.
```
